Add more details to logs concept page (#2880)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io: content/en/docs/concepts/signals/logs.md

---

A **log** is a timestamped text record, either structured (recommended) or

> unstructured, with metadata. Of all telemetry signals logs have probably the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
unstructured, with metadata. Of all telemetry signals, logs have probably the
```

Author: will commit suggestion in https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io/pull/2880/files#r1232532495 which also includes this change

> unstructured, with metadata. Of all telemetry signals logs have probably the
> biggest legacy. Most programming languages have built-in logging capabilities or
> well-known, widely used logging libraries. While logs are an independent data
> source, they may also be attached to spans. In OpenTelemetry, any data that is
> not part of a distributed trace or a metric is a log. For example, _events_ are
> a specific type of log. Logs are often used to determine the root cause of an
> issue and typically contain information about who changed what as well as the
> result of the change.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
unstructured, with metadata. Of all telemetry signals logs, have the
biggest legacy. Most programming languages have built-in logging capabilities or
well-known, widely used logging libraries. Although logs are an independent data
source, they may also be attached to spans. In OpenTelemetry, any data that is
not part of a distributed trace or a metric is a log. For example, _events_ are
a specific type of log. Logs often contain detailed debugging/diagnostic info,
such as inputs to an operation, the result of the operation, and any supporting
metadata for that operation.
```

> For metrics and traces OpenTelemetry takes the approach of a clean-sheet design,
> specifies a new API and provides full implementations of this API in multiple
> languages.
> 
> Our approach with logs is somewhat different. For OpenTelemetry to be successful
> in logging space we need to support existing legacy of logs and logging
> libraries, while offering improvements and better integration with the rest of
> observability world where possible.
> 
> This is in essence the philosophy behind OpenTelemetry’s logs support. We
> embrace existing logging solutions and make sure OpenTelemetry works nicely with
> existing logging libraries, log collection and processing solutions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For traces and metrics, OpenTelemetry takes the approach of a clean-sheet design,
specifies a new API, and provides full implementations of this API in multiple
language SDKs.

OpenTelemetry's approach with logs is different. Because existing logging solutions
are widespread in language and operational ecosystems, OpenTelemetry acts as a
"bridge" between those logs, the tracing and metrics signals, and other OpenTelemetry
components. In fact, the API for logs is called the "Logs Bridge API" for this reason.
```

The [logs specification][] contains more details on this philosophy.

To understand how logging in OpenTelemetry works, let's look at a list of
components that will play a part in instrumenting our code.

## Log Appender / Bridge

> As an application developer it is important for you to understand, that the
> **Logs Bridge API** should not be called by you directly, as it is provided for
> logging library authors to build log appenders / bridges. Instead you use your
> preferred logging library and configure it to use an log appender (or log
> bridge) that is able to emit logs into an OpenTelemetry LogRecordExporter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As an application developer, the **Logs Bridge API** should not be called by
you directly, as it is provided for logging library authors to build log
appenders / bridges. Instead, you just use your preferred logging library
and configure it to use an log appender (or log bridge) that is able to emit
logs into an OpenTelemetry LogRecordExporter.

OpenTelemetry language SDKs offer this functionality.
```

|  ObservedTimestamp    | Time when the event was observed.            |
|  TraceId              | Request trace id.                            |
|  SpanId               | Request span id.                             |
|  TraceFlags           | W3C trace flag.                              |
|  SeverityText         | The severity text (also known as log level). |
|  SeverityNumber       | Numerical value of the severity.             |
|  Body                 | The body of the log record.                  |
|  Resource             | Describes the source of the log.             |
|  InstrumentationScope | Describes the scope that emitted the log.    |
| Attributes            | Additional information about the event.      |

You can find more details on log records and the definitions of those fields in
the
[Logs Data Model](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otel/logs/data-model/).

## Language Support

Metrics are a [stable](/docs/specs/otel/versioning-and-stability/#stable) signal
in the OpenTelemetry specification. For the individual language specific
implementations of the Metrics API & SDK, the status is as follows:

> {{% logs_support_table " " %}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{% logs_support_table %}}
```
